Add ckb script development status rfc (#191)
nervosnetwork/rfcs: rfcs/0024-ckb-script-development-status/0024-ckb-script-development-status.md

---
Number: "0024"
Category: Standards Track
Status: Proposal
Author: Dylan Duan
Organization: Nervos Foundation
Created: 2020-05-21
---

# CKB Script Development Status

## Abstract

This document shows a series of Nervos CKB system scripts information, including a brief introduction and _code_hash_, _hash_type_, _out_point_(_tx_hash_ and _index_), _dep_type_ in mainnet Lina and testnet Aggron so far.

## Motivation

Nervos Foundation providers a series of Nervos CKB system scripts, including:

> - [Default Locks](#default-Locks):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Locks](#Locks):
```

  - [_SECP256K1/blake160_](#secp256k1blake160)
  - [_SECP256K1/multisig_](#secp256k1multisig)
  - [_anyone_can_pay_](#anyone_can_pay)

> - [System Scripts](#system-scripts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Types](#Types)
```

  - [_Nervos DAO_](#nervos-dao)

> - [Fundamental Apps](#fundamental-apps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Standards](#Standards)
```

  - [_Simple UDT_](#simple-udt)

To construct transactions with system scripts, the _code_hash_, _hash_type_, _out_point_ and _dep_type_ of system scripts in mainnet Lina and testnet Aggron are needed.

> ## Default Locks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Locks
```

### SECP256K1/blake160

> [SECP256K1/blake160](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/wiki/How-to-sign-transaction#p2ph) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/master/c/secp256k1_blake160_sighash_all.c) is a popular script to sign and validate transaction in CKB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SECP256K1/blake160](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/wiki/How-to-sign-transaction#p2ph) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/master/c/secp256k1_blake160_sighash_all.c) is the default lock script to verify CKB transaction signature.
```

| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code_hash` | `0x5c5069eb0857efc65e1bca0c07df34c31663b3622fd3876c876320fc9634e2a8`  |
| `hash_type` | `type`                                                                |
| `tx_hash`   | `0x71a7ba8fc963 49fea0ed3a5c47992e3b4084b031a42264a018e0072e8172e46c` |
| `index`     | `0x1`                                                                 |
| `dep_type`  | `dep_group`                                                           |

- Aggron

| parameter   | value                                                                |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code_hash` | `0x5c5069eb0857efc65e1bca0c07df34c31663b3622fd3876c876320fc9634e2a8` |
| `hash_type` | `type`                                                               |
| `tx_hash`   | `0xf8de3bb47d055cdf460d93a2a6e1b05f7432f9777c8c474abf4eec1d4aee5d37` |
| `index`     | `0x1`                                                                |
| `dep_type`  | `dep_group`                                                          |

### anyone_can_pay

> [anyone_can_pay](https://talk.nervos.org/t/rfc-anyone-can-pay-lock/4438) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-anyone-can-pay) is is a script that can accept any amount of payment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[anyone_can_pay](https://talk.nervos.org/t/rfc-anyone-can-pay-lock/4438) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-anyone-can-pay) allows a recipient to provide cell capacity in asset transfer.
```

anyone_can_pay script is for **lock script**:

- Aggron

| parameter   | value                                                                |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code_hash` | `0x86a1c6987a4acbe1a887cca4c9dd2ac9fcb07405bbeda51b861b18bbf7492c4b` |
| `hash_type` | `type`                                                               |
| `tx_hash`   | `0x4f32b3e39bd1b6350d326fdfafdfe05e5221865c3098ae323096f0bfc69e0a8c` |
| `index`     | `0x0`                                                                |
| `dep_type`  | `dep_group`                                                          |

> ## System Scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Types
```

### Nervos DAO

> [Nervos DAO](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0023-dao-deposit-withdraw/0023-dao-deposit-withdraw.md) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/master/c/dao.c) is a script and One function of Nervos DAO is to provide an dilution counter-measure for CKByte holders. By deposit in Nervos DAO, holders get proportional secondary rewards, which guarantee their holding are only affected by hardcapped primary issuance as in Bitcoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Nervos DAO](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0023-dao-deposit-withdraw/0023-dao-deposit-withdraw.md) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/master/c/dao.c) is the script implements Nervos DAO.
```

| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code_hash` | `0x82d76d1b75fe2fd9a27dfbaa65a039221a380d76c926f378d3f81cf3e7e13f2e` |
| `hash_type` | `data`                                                               |
| `tx_hash`   | `0xe2fb199810d49a4d8beec56718ba2593b665db9d52299a0f9e6e75416d73ff5c` |
| `index`     | `0x2`                                                                |
| `dep_type`  | `code`                                                               |

- Aggron

| parameter   | value                                                                |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code_hash` | `0x82d76d1b75fe2fd9a27dfbaa65a039221a380d76c926f378d3f81cf3e7e13f2e` |
| `hash_type` | `data`                                                               |
| `tx_hash`   | `0x8f8c79eb6671709633fe6a46de93c0fedc9c1b8a6527a18d3983879542635c9f` |
| `index`     | `0x2`                                                                |
| `dep_type`  | `code`                                                               |

> ## Fundamental Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Standards
```

### Simple UDT

> [Simple UDT](https://talk.nervos.org/t/rfc-simple-udt-draft-spec/4333) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-miscellaneous-scripts/blob/master/c/simple_udt.c) provides a way to issue custom tokens on Nervos CKB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Simple UDT](https://talk.nervos.org/t/rfc-simple-udt-draft-spec/4333) [Source Code](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-miscellaneous-scripts/blob/master/c/simple_udt.c) implements the minimum standard for user defined tokens on Nervos CKB.
```
